NYC Comptroller announces plan to bring childcare to 70,000 families
City Comptroller Scott Stringer rolled out a plan Friday to bring taxpayer-funded childcare to families with kids under three-years old, a policy initiative he touted as potentially “the single largest local investment in childcare in the United States.”

The “NYC Under 3” proposal — devised after a recent comptroller’s audit found infant care costs city parents on average $18,700 a year — would need approval in Albany to be implemented in the Big Apple.

It would be paid for through a state-administered payroll tax applied in the city and phased in over six years. Stringer estimated the first year would cost taxpayers $180 million with 70% of the money going to grants for childcare providers, training and improving already existing centers.

“Quality, affordable child care must be a fundamental right for every family, not just a privileged few,” Stringer said Friday. “Government has ignored the crisis in child care for too long and we must act now. New York City should drive a child care revolution, put working families first and establish a model for the nation to follow.”

Stringer’s proposal has not yet been introduced in Albany, but he’s drafted three state lawmakers who’ve agreed to carry it for him in the statehouse: Assemblywoman Latrice Walker (D-Brooklyn) and state senators Jessica Ramos (D-Queens) and Brad Hoylman (D-Manhattan).

[More Politics] Trump suggests no one warned him against hiring Michael Flynn — though several people did »
The plan would offer assistance to families making up to $100,000 annually on a need-based, sliding scale. Families making $25,750 or less would be eligible for free childcare. Families making under $38,625 would be entitled to annual care with a $1,545 price tag. Through current government subsidies, a family making under the $38,625 threshold would be eligible for annual care at a $4,506 cost.

Stringer predicts that, if implemented, the program would triple the number of kids three and under in city-funded childcare and would benefit as many as 84,000 children, 34,000 of whom are not enrolled in paid care.

As part of the plan, he is also calling for state capital funding to increase the number of daycare centers in what he describes as “childcare deserts.” Neighborhoods most in need include Bushwick, Woodside and Tottenville, Stringer said.

[More Politics] Colorado Dem running for president to return campaign donation from Trump-tied meatpacker owned by crooked Brazilians »
Fiscal hawks reacted warily to the plan.

“Comptroller Stringer’s proposal to help working families cope with rising costs of living in the city is a good idea, but he could have been more creative about how to fund it," said Partnership for New York City President Kathryn Wylde. "The comptroller’s audits of city agencies have found more than enough potential savings to provide a child care benefit without imposing yet another new tax on New York’s business community.”