Trump suggests no one warned him against hiring Michael Flynn — though several people did
President Trump tried to rewrite history Friday as he complained that no one advised him against hiring Michael Flynn, the disgraced national security adviser who lied to the FBI about his contacts with Russians.

Contradicting statements from his own advisers, Trump said it would have been “impossible” for him to know not to hire Flynn, who had been fired by President Barack Obama from his previous job as director of national intelligence.

“It now seems the General Flynn was under investigation long before was common knowledge,” Trump tweeted, referring to a little-noticed portion of special counsel Robert Mueller’s report that reveals the FBI was looking into the ex-Trump aide’s peculiar Kremlin ties earlier than previously known.

“It would have been impossible for me to know this," Trump continued, "but, if that was the case, and with me being one of two people who would become president, why was I not told so that I could make a change?”

Despite Trump’s assertion, former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie said in 2017 that he warned Trump both before and after the election not to hire Flynn.

“I didn’t think that he was someone who would bring benefit to the president or to the administration, and I made that very clear to candidate Trump, and I made it very clear to president-elect Trump," Christie, who served on Trump’s transition team, told reporters in Trenton, N.J., at the time.

According to CNN, Obama personally told Trump days after the 2016 election not to hire Flynn, who had developed extensive ties to Russians close to President Vladimir Putin.

Sally Yates, the former acting attorney general, even testified before Congress that she informed the White House shortly after Trump’s inauguration that she feared Flynn was at risk of being blackmailed by Moscow after she found out he had lied to the FBI about his contacts with Sergey Kislyak, Russia’s former U.S. ambassador. Flynn, who’s awaiting sentencing, eventually pleaded guilty to criminal charges for those lies.

[More Politics] Colorado Dem running for president to return campaign donation from Trump-tied meatpacker owned by crooked Brazilians »
Trump’s dubious Flynn claim came one day after U.S. District Court Judge Emmet Sullivan released confidential court filings revealing that Flynn told Mueller’s team that people connected to the president’s administration tried to curtail his cooperation in the Russia probe.

Sullivan also ordered that redacted portions of Mueller’s report relating to Flynn be made public by the end of this month, marking the first time that a judge has stepped in to demand that the Justice Department shine more light on the special counsel’s historic investigation.