Sydneysiders could soon duck into an inner-city wine bar for a glass of red after midnight or tuck into a late-night restaurant meal in the CBD under changes to the city's late-night planning rules.

City of Sydney councillors unanimously endorsed an overhaul of the plan that determines where and when night-time activity can take place throughout the inner city at a meeting on Monday night.

[Image: Grand Days co-owner Tom Hespe says the potential for extended trading hours in the inner city will mean businesses can better cater to tourists and residents who work long hours. ]  
Grand Days co-owner Tom Hespe says the potential for extended trading hours in the inner city will mean businesses can better cater to tourists and residents who work long hours.  Credit: Wolter Peeters

Lord Mayor Clover Moore flagged the potential reforms in November in response to feedback from residents, businesses and visitors who wanted to revive Sydney’s nightlife and economy.

Under the changes, shops, eateries and other unlicensed businesses in central Sydney - from Hyde Park to Darling Harbour, and south to Central station - will be allowed to trade 24 hours a day.

Advertisement
Trading hours for small bars and restaurants along Crown Street in Surry Hills, Union Street in Pyrmont, Glebe Point Road in Glebe and Redfern Street in Redfern will be extended to 2am.

 Loading  
Late-night trading areas will be created in burgeoning neighbourhoods at Barangaroo, Green Square and Waterloo.

The changes will not override the city's controversial 1.30am lock-out laws and 3am last drinks at bars, pubs and clubs in Sydney's central business district and Kings Cross.

Part of Alexandria's industrial precinct will be turned into an arts, entertainment and cultural hub to scatter more late-night hotspots throughout different parts of the city.

And venues holding live performances and cultural events, such as poetry readings, will be able to stay open for an extra hour in late-night trading zones.

 Loading  
"It's not going to all happen at once, but it will slowly start to build," councillor Jess Scully said. "It's setting Sydney's night-life up for the future, and for how we live now."

Businesses interested in the late-night trading zones will be able to apply for extended hours from June through a development application process, which includes public consultation and a trial period.

Cr Scully said that while the overall response to the proposed changes had been positive, sections of the late-night trading zones had been "tweaked" in response to some residents' concerns over noise.

"This is a tiny fraction of the city community that has raised objections to the changes," she said.

The co-owner of Woolloomooloo's Grand Days bookshop, Tom Hespe, said the reforms would have "a really big impact on the city".

"In a mature, global city - like Sydney likes to think it is - businesses need to be able to trade 24/7 and there's no reason why they shouldn't.

"We're a bookshop, it's not like we're a pub or a club or a casino."

Mr Hespe said the shop - which sells books, vinyl records and vintage clothing - received a council grant to run a series of low-key after-hours events this year. He said the extended hours meant the business could better cater for residents who worked long hours.

"It just opens so many more opportunities for businesses, and for the area."